---
title: "Changes"
date: 2012-09-18 05:06:10
---

Hey everyone. In case you haven't noticed, there have been a lot of changes in my life. We have a <a href="http://instagram.com/p/PlT3dZMAc-/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" title="More on that, to come...">new baby boy</a>, a <a href="{{site.url}}/2012/07/07/in-which-i-explain-how-i-got-my-dream-job/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" title="FYI, it's pretty awesome">new job</a>, and we've [moved across the country][1]. Along with these changes, I've also changed [BryanBraun.com][2] to better fit my future uses of the site. I'll be brief.

 [1]: {{site.url}}/2012/08/05/17-states-14-days/ "East coast, here we come!"
 [2]: {{site.url}}

### I'm Mobile Friendly

Slowly, over time, I've been making incremental changes to the site in order to make it easy to use on mobile phones. It's not perfect but you can now visit the site without having to play the pinch and zoom game all day.

### Double-blog goodness

I now have two blogs. My personal blog will continue to contain the same kind of yummy material I've always posted, with an increased emphasis on life in the Braun house. In the past, I've had a tendency to drone on and on, so I will also be making an effort to keep my musings brief (this one is pretty good, right?). For that one person out there who actually reads this regularly, do not be alarmed. I will continue to post here weekly.

My new blog will contain material related to my the work I'm doing in the Web industry. I love this stuff and I can't help but pontificate endlessly about it. It's a bit unfair to subject my poor family to such treatment, so if you like building web stuff and want to geek out with me, you can do it at [bryanbraun.com/drupal][3].

 [3]: {{site.url}}

### My Books

I love to read and with all the time I invest in reading, I've been looking for a way to reflect back on what I've read and share my recommendations with other people. As such, I've decided to put up [a booklist][4] containing the books I'm reading and the ratings I'd give them. I'm also hoping that people will see what I like and <a href="{{site.url}}/contact" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" title="do it.">give me some good recommendations</a>. If a book inspires me, I don't want to keep it to myself. You shouldn't either.

 [4]: {{site.url}}/books "My booklist"

### In Conclusion...

Life is awesome. I wish I could talk about all the incredible changes my family and I have been going through but I fear I would wear out the keys on this laptop. I hope that by opening up my site a little more, I can better share my thoughts, ideas, and experiences.
