---
title: "250 lbs"
date: 2026-02-16
related: [
  "The stories we tell ourselves",
  "250 lbs",
]
---

Six months ago, while I was setting up a new code editor, I noticed that the default font size felt just a bit too small, when displayed on my monitor. Not a big deal, I just bumped it up one size and went back to my work.

Then it happened again, this time, when reading sheet music on my phone. "That's weird," I thought, as I increased the size. "This didn't bother me before."

I had always had perfect, 20-20 eyesight. When I finally realized that I was losing some of that sharpness, I felt a loss.

It wasn't the first time, though.

About two years ago, I started having wrist pain while typing. On one particularly bad day, I became very worried. "Typing is how I provide for my family. What will I do, if I can't type?" Soon I discovered that wearing wrist braces at night helped make the pain go away. I remember laying in my bed in wrist braces, thinking, "I'm 36 years old. I'm too young to need wrist braces for the rest of my life," and I felt a loss.<sup id="fnref-1"><a href="#fn-1" class="footnote-ref">1</a></sup>

After a few losses like these, it would be easy to adopt a narrative that I'm in physical decline, losing capability daily, with all my best achievements in my past. It's a sad story. A [fragile story]({{site.url}}/2023/06/06/the-stories-we-tell-ourselves/#fragile-stories).

I decided that one way I could push back against this story is to set a new weightlifting goal: a 250-pound bench press.

It was an unthinkable goal back when [I benched 200]({{site.url}}/2023/08/26/200-lbs/). I didn't plan on going heavier, but I enjoyed my weightlifting routine, so I kept showing up. By the time I hit 235, I realized that maybe 250 was possible. I felt excited and motivated just thinking about it. I wanted to go for it.

But just like last time, I hit a plateau.<sup id="fnref-2"><a href="#fn-2" class="footnote-ref">2</a></sup> I was able to bench 245 *once*, last summer, but I spent the next 6 months unable to do it again. As I turned 39, I wondered if I was fighting against time.

And then it happened.

<hr class="section-divider" />

All of us are going to have to learn how to grow old. The aging itself is easy, but learning how to handle the losses is more challenging. Today, I can tell myself, "my eyesight may be declining, but I'm stronger than I've ever been." Next year, who knows. Maybe I'll get into pickleball.

There are endless opportunities for personal growth, and if we exhaust the supply of physical milestones we can still progress intellectually, creatively, and spiritually. Life offers plenty of PRs to pursue, if we're willing to look for them.

***

<div class="footnotes">
  <ol>
    <li id="fn-1">
      <p>Fortunately, I didn't end up needing to wear wrist braces for the rest of my life. After some trial and error, I learned that my pain was ultimately caused by poor ergonomics from using my laptop keyboard and trackpad for extended periods. Once I got set up with an ergonomic keyboard and mouse, the pain went away. It's still a bit of a loss (I can't just roll into a weekend hackathon with only a laptop anymore) but I'm glad I can still do the work I enjoy.</p>
      <a href="#fnref-1" class="footnote-backref">↩</a>
    </li>
    <li id="fn-2">
      <p>In <a href="{{site.url}}/2023/08/26/200-lbs/">my last weightlifting post</a>, I talked a bit about breaking through plateaus. This time, the key intervention was simply eating more calories (something I've avoided in the past in an effort to moderate body fat). Eating more calories increased my body fat a bit, but also helped me build muscle. Professional weightlifters eat a lot and exercise a lot. It's not an efficient use of time but it's fun (especially if you like eating and exercising).</p>
      <a href="#fnref-2" class="footnote-backref">↩</a>
    </li>
  </ol>
</div>
